                                                              What is SDLC? Exploring the Software Development Lifecycle
                                                              
                                                       BLOG's Link-> https://denish.hashnode.dev/what-is-sdlc-exploring-the-software-development-lifecycle

Building Software can be very difficult task, but with a set of standard and with a structured approach like the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC),It becomes manageable and efficient. 
Let's break down the SDLC into its essential phases, making it easy to understand for everyone.  
SDLC-> It's a set of standard functions in software industry to Design, Develop and Testing for provide a high quality product/software.

1.Planning: Laying the Foundation
Purpose: The planning phase is the initial phase. Here, we decide what we want to achieve and how we’re going to do it.
Steps:
Understand the project-> Talk the user who will use the software to understand al their needs.
Make a Plan-> It's includes project timeline, all budget.

2.Requirement: Analysis: Defining What to Build
Purpose: This is the second phase in which we figure out exactly what the software should do.

Steps:
Gather every information from the user about the software and Important features.
Write down these requirement in a clear and step by step document.

3.Design: Making the Blueprint
Purpose: This is the third phase in which we plan how the software will work.

Steps:
Plan the overall structure of the software.
And also plan each and every parts of the software like development part, like data structures etc...

4.Implementation
Purpose: This is fourth phase in which we write the actual code for the required software.

Steps:
Write the according to the blueprint of the software.
And code must be clean and take less space and less memory.

5.Testing
Purpose: This is the fifth phase in which We ensure the written code for the software works correctly and full fill the requirements.

Steps:
Check every parts of the software that they are working well together.
And also test the whole system that it allows the software run properly.
And also test the software from the user's point view.
Resolves any issue and fix every bugs before the next phase.

6. Deployment
Purpose: This is the sixth phase in which we release the software to users.

Steps:
Plan how and when the software will be available to the users.
Install the software in the user's system/environment.
Move any important old data into new system.
Teach users that how to use the new software effectively.

7. Maintenance
Purpose: this is the last phase in which we have to keep the software running smoothly after it's released.

Steps:
Fix any bugs or any problems which users faced during the of software.
Add new features and improve old one.
Continuously check the software and ensure that it running properly.
Provide any help or support to users as needed.

If you liked this, a star would be a wonderful way to say thanks! ⭐ Your support means a lot.
